---
title: Holomorphic functions of several variables - 3
date: 2025-06-18 14:13:00
tags:
	- complex geometry
	- math
mathjax: true
---

In this post, we explore some properties of the ring $O_{\mathbb{C}^n,0}$ and analytic germs in $\mathbb{C}^n$.

<!-- UFD & notherian -->

Using Weierstrass theorems, we can show that the local ring $O_{\mathbb{C}^n,0}$ is a noetherian UFD.

Note that we have the results in algebra that 

1. if $R$ is a UFD, then $R[x]$ is a UFD;
2. if $R$ is a UFD and $f, g \in R[x]$ are relatively prime, then there exist $u, v \in R[x]$ and nonzero $r \in R$ such that $fu + gv = r$.

**Theorem.** The local ring $O_{\mathbb{C}^n,0}$ is a UFD.

> *Proof.* Prove by induction on $n$. When $n = 0$, $O_{\mathbb{C}^n,0} = \mathbb{C}$ is a field and clearly a $UFD$. Suppose $O_{\mathbb{C}^{n-1},0}$ is a UFD. Then $O_{\mathbb{C}^{n-1},0}[z^n]$ is a UFD. By Weierstrass preparation theorem, it remains to show that any irreducible factor of a Weierstrass polynomial in $O_{\mathbb{C}^{n-1},0}[z^n]$ is also irreducible in $O_{\mathbb{C}^n,0}$. However, this follows from the facts that any Weierstrass polynomial can be written as a product of irreducible Weierstrass polynomials, and that any irreducible Weierstrass polynomial is irreducible in $O_{\mathbb{C}^n,0}$. These facts can be proved by direct applications of Weierstrass preparation theorem.  

Recall that a commutative ring $R$ is called **noetherian** if every ideal in $R$ is finitely generated. *Hilbert's basis theorem* tells us that if $R$ is noetherian then $R[x]$ is also noetherian. 

**Theorem.** The local UFD $O_{\mathbb{C}^n,0}$ is noetherian.

> *Proof.* Prove by induction on $n$. The result is trivial when $n = 0$. Now suppose that $O_{\mathbb{C}^{n-1},0}$ is noetherian. Then $O_{\mathbb{C}^{n-1},0}[z^n]$ is noetherian. Consider any non-trivial ideal $I \subset O_{\mathbb{C}^n,0}$ and take a nonzero $f \in I$. Up to a change of coordinates, we may assume $f = g \cdot h$ with $g \in O_{\mathbb{C}^{n-1},0}[z^n]$ a Weierstrass polynomial and $h$ a unit. Then $g \in I$. Since $O_{\mathbb{C}^{n-1},0}[z^n]$ is noetherian, the ideal $I \cap O_{\mathbb{C}^{n-1},0}[z^n]$ is generated by finitely many elements $g_1, \cdots, g_k$. For any $\tilde{f} \in I$, Weierstrass division theorem gives $\tilde{f} = g \cdot q + r$ with $r \in O_{\mathbb{C}^{n-1},0}[z^n]$, and then $r = \tilde{f} - g \cdot q \in I$. It follows that $\tilde{f} \in (g) + I \cap O_{\mathbb{C}^{n-1},0}[z^n] = (g, g_1, \cdots, g_k)$. We conclude that $I = (g, g_1, \cdots, g_k)$ is finite generated. 

<!-- weak Nullstellensatz & local invariance -->

We can consider the zero set $Z(f)$ of a germ $f \in O_{\mathbb{C}^n,0}$. In fact, what we consider is a *germ of sets*. Define an equivalence relation $\sim$ on the collection $P(\mathbb{C}^n)$ of subsets of $\mathbb{C}^n$ by that $X \sim Y$ if and only if there exists an open neighborhood $U$ of $0 \in \mathbb{C}^n$ such that $U \cap X = U \cap Y$. An equivalence class of $P(\mathbb{C}^n)$ with respect to this equivalence relation is called a **germ of sets in $0$**. Now we can define $Z(f)$ to be the germ given by the zero set of $f \in O_{\mathbb{C}^n,0}$. Moreover, we can define for a subset $A \subset O_{\mathbb{C}^n,0}$ its zero set $Z(A)$ to be te germ given by the common zero set of functions in $A$. Note that the inclusion, union and intersection of germs are all well-defined. We can see that $$Z(A) = \bigcap_{f \in A} Z(f).$$ 

**Proposition.** Suppose $g \in O_{\mathbb{C}^n,0}$ is irreducible. If $f \in O_{\mathbb{C}^n,0}$ vanishes on $Z(g)$, i.e., $Z(g) \subset Z(f)$, then $g$ divides $f$. 

> *Proof:* We may assume $g \in O_{\mathbb{C}^{n-1},0}[z^n]$ is a Weierstrass polynomial with degree $k$. Since $g$ is irreducible, $g$ and $\partial g / \partial z^n$ are relatively prime in $O_{\mathbb{C}^{n-1},0}[z^n]$, and hence there exists a nonzero $r_0 \in O_{\mathbb{C}^{n-1},0}$ such that $$u \cdot g + v \cdot \frac{\partial g}{\partial z^n} = r_0, \quad u, v \in O_{\mathbb{C}^{n-1},0}[z^n]$. It follows that if $g(\tilde{z},-)$ has a multiple root in $z^n$, then $\tilde{z}$ is a zero of $r_0$. Meanwhile, from the identity theorem we see that $Z(r_0)$ has an empty interior. 
> 
> Weierstrass division theorem yields $f = g \cdot q + r$ with $r \in O_{\mathbb{C}^{n-1},0}[z^n]$ a Weierstrass polynomial of degree less than $k$. We must have $Z(g) \subset Z(r)$ as $Z(g) \subset Z(f)$. Therefore for any $\tilde{z}$ outside $Z(r_0)$, $r(\tilde{z},-)$ has at least $k$ distinct roots, implying that $r(\tilde{z},-) = 0$ for the degree reason. It follows that $r$ is identically zero and $g$ divides $f$.

**Proposition.** If $f : U \to \mathbb{C}$ is a holomorphic function on a neighborhood of $0$ such that $f$ is irreducible in $O_{\mathbb{C}^n,0}$, then $f$ is irreducible in $O_{\mathbb{C}^n,z}$ for $z$ in a sufficiently small neighborhood of $0$. 

> *Proof:* We may assume $f \in O_{\mathbb{C}^{n-1},0}[z^n]$ is a Weierstrass polynomial. If $f$ is reducible in $O_{\mathbb{C}^n,z}$, then $f = f_1 \cdot f_2$ with $f_1(z) = f_2(z) = 0$, and hence $$\frac{\partial f}{\partial z^n}(z) = \frac{\partial f_1}{\partial z^n}(z) \cdot f_2(z) + f_1(z) \cdot \frac{\partial f_2}{\partial z^n}(z) = 0.$$ This shows that the germ of the set of points $z$ such that $f$ is reducible in $O_{\mathbb{C}^n,z}$ is contained in $Z(f, \partial f / \partial z^n)$. It suffices to show that $Z(f, \partial f / \partial z^n)$ is a proper subset of $Z(f)$. This is direct from the preceding proposition. 

**Proposition.** If $f$ and $g$ are holomorphic functions in a neighborhood of $0$ such that they are relatively prime in $O_{\mathbb{C}^n,0}$, then $f$ and $g$ are relatively prime in $O_{\mathbb{C}^n,z}$ for $z$ in a sufficiently small neighborhood of $0$. 

> *Proof:* Still we may assume $f, g \in O_{\mathbb{C}^{n-1},0}[z^n]$ are both Weierstrass polynomials. Then they are relatively prime as elements in $O_{\mathbb{C}^{n-1},0}[z^n]$ and hence there exist $u, v \in O_{\mathbb{C}^{n-1},0}[z^n]$ and nonzero $r \in O_{\mathbb{C}^{n-1},0}$ such that $u \cdot f + v \cdot g = r$. This holds on a sufficiently small neighborhood around $0$. 
>
> If $f, g$ have a non-unit common factor $h$ in $O_{\mathbb{C}^{n-1},\tilde{z}}[z^n]$, then $h$ divides $u \cdot f + v \cdot g = r$ and hence belongs to $O_{\mathbb{C}^{n-1},\tilde{z}}$. It follows that $h(\tilde{z},-)$ is zero, and hence $f(\tilde{z},-)$  and $g(\tilde{z},-)$ are both zero, a contradiction. 

<!-- correspondence between ideals and germs -->

Now we consider the relations between ideals of $O_{\mathbb{C}^n,0}$ and germs in $0$. A germ $X \subset \mathbb{C}^n$ in $0$ is called **analytic** if there exist $f_1, \cdots, f_k \in O_{\mathbb{C}^n,0}$ such that $X = Z(f_1, \cdots, f_k)$ as germs. For a germ $X$ in $0$, we let $I(X)$ to be the set of elements $f \in O_{\mathbb{C}^n,0}$ satisfying $X \subset Z(f)$. 

Using the definitions and the fact that $O_{\mathbb{C}^n,0}$ is noetherian, we can see that $I(X)$ is an ideal of $O_{\mathbb{C}^n,0}$ for any germ $X$, and $Z(A) = Z((A))$ is an analytic germ in $0$ for any $A \subset O_{\mathbb{C}^n,0}$, where $(A)$ is the ideal generated by $A$. Moreover, the assignments $X \mapsto I(X)$ and $I \mapsto Z(I)$ are both inclusion-reserving. We also have $X = Z(I(X))$ for any analytic germ $X$ in $0$ and $I \subset I(Z(I))$ for any ideal $I \subset O_{\mathbb{C}^n,0}$. 

An analytic germ $X$ is called **irreducible** if any decompostion $X = X_1 \cup X_2$ such that $X_1$ and $X_2$ are analytic germs implies either $X_1 = X$ or $X_2 = X$. 

**Proposition.** An analytic germ $X$ in $0$ is irreducible if and only if $I(X)$ is a prime ideal in $O_{\mathbb{C}^n,0}$.

> *Proof:* First suppose that $X$ is irreducible and $f_1 \cdot f_2 \in I(X)$. Then we have $X \subset Z(f_1 \cdot f_2) = Z(f_1) \cup Z(f_2)$ and hence $X = (X \cap Z(f_1)) \cup (X \cap Z(f_2))$. Since $X$ is irreducible, we must have either $X = X \cap Z(f_1)$ or $X = X \cap Z(f_2)$, which implies either $f_1 \in I(X)$ or $f_2 \in I(X)$. 
>
> Now suppose that $I(X)$ is a prime ideal and $X = X_1 \cup X_2$ with $X_1, X_2$ analytic germs. If $X \neq X_1$, then $Z(I(X)) \neq Z(I(X_1))$, which suggests that $I(X)$ is a proper subset of $I(X_1)$. If we further have $X \neq X_2$, then we can take $f_1 \in I(X_1) \setminus I(X)$ and $f_2 \in I(X_2) \setminus I(X)$. Since $X = X_1 \cup X_2$, $f_1 \cdot f_2 \in I(X)$, contradicting to that $I(X)$ is a prime ideal. 

The final conclusion of the relations between ideals and germs is given by the analytic version of *Nullstellensatz*. 

**Theorem (Nullstellensatz).** If $I \subset O_{\mathbb{C}^n,0}$ is an ideal, then $\sqrt{I} = I(Z(I)),$ where $\sqrt{I}$ is the *radical* of $I$, i.e., the ideal of all elements $f \in O_{\mathbb{C}^n,0}$ such that $f^k \in I$ for some $k > 0$. 

The complete proof is too involved to be presented, so we will just prove the *pricipal ideal* case of Nullstellensatz.

*Proof (of principal case):* Suppose $f \in O_{\mathbb{C}^n,0}$ is nonzero and $g \in I(Z(f))$. We may assume $f = u \cdot f_1^{e_1} \cdots f_k^{e_k}$ with $u$ a unit and $f_1, \cdots, f_k$ irreducible. Then it suffices to show that each $f_j$ divides $g$. However, this is clear since $g$ vanishes on $Z(f)$ and hence $Z(f_j)$. 